Edit the Enterprise migration guide (#41285)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/choose-an-edition/migrate-to-cloud.mdx

---
title: Migrating from Teleport Enterprise (Self-Hosted) to Teleport Enterprise (Cloud-Hosted)
description: How to migrate from Teleport Enterprise (self-hosted) to Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted).
h1: Migrate to Cloud-Hosted Teleport Enterprise 
---

Migrating from a Teleport Enterprise (self-hosted) deployment to Teleport
Enterprise (cloud-hosted) offers scalability, reliability, and ease of
management. By following the steps outlined in this guide, you can transition
your Teleport Enterprise (self-hosted) deployment to Teleport Enterprise
(cloud-hosted) successfully while ensuring minimal disruption to your

> operations.

Reviewer: I'm probably yelling into the void and the decision has already been made above my pay grade, but I really don't like this whole "same product name with different qualifier in brackets" style. It's just clunky and awkward to read.

   free up the domain for re-use.

   [Reach out](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/) to your Account
   Management team to set up your Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted) tenant.

1. Ensure you are running Teleport Enterprise agents with versions that are
   lower than the Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted) tenant version. To check
   the versions of your Teleport Enterprise agents, you can use the `tctl`
   command to list the inventory of connected agents and their version:

   ```code  
   $ tctl inventory ls --older-than=<version>
   ```

Validate connectivity to both the newly deployed Teleport Enterprise
(cloud-hosted) cluster and your existing Teleport Enterprise (self-hosted)
cluster. You should be able to connect to both Teleport clusters and execute
`tctl` commands using your current credentials.

1. Log in to the self-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster:

   ```code
   $ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="enterprise.example.com" /> --user=<Var name="myuser" />
   $ tctl status
   ```

1. Log in to the cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise cluster:

   ```code
   $ tsh login --proxy=<Var name="example.teleport.sh" /> --user=<Var name="myuser" />
   $ tctl status

>    ```

Reviewer: Might be worth adding SSO examples here, `--auth okta` or whatever (where `--user` will be ignored)

>

  Ensure that the recovery codes displayed when you first set up your Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted) tenant are saved securely, so as not to lose access. For your security, Teleport Support cannot assist with resetting passwords or recovering lost credentials.

</Notice>

## Step 2/4. Migrate Teleport resources

After ensuring that both your self-hosted and cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise
clusters are up and running, you can migrate dynamic Teleport resources from one
cluster to the next.

Dynamic Teleport resources such as roles and local users are stored on the
Teleport Auth Service backend. Since your self-hosted Teleport Enterprise
cluster uses a separate Auth Service backend from your cloud-hosted cluster, you
must retrieve the resources on the first backend, then re-apply them against the
second backend.

Review the [dynamic resources](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/resources/)
list to see if any other resources need to be migrated. Some common dynamic
resources includes:

- `windows_desktop`
- `apps`
- `dbs`
- `login_rule`

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  Trusted clusters are not supported on Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted). You

>   will not be able to migrate trusted cluster resources.

Reviewer: It might be worth mentioning this much closer to the top, so people don't get this far and then realise it won't work for them.

</Admonition>

If you are using infrastructure-as-code tools to 

> To achieve this:

Reviewer: This seems to be a little misjoined

use a configuration management tool to automate and streamline the process of
carrying out the actions involved in migrating agent configurations. 

### Migrate Teleport agents

To migrate Teleport agents:

1. For each agent and Machine ID bot, obtain a valid join token. We recommend
   using a [delegated join
   method](https://goteleport.com/docs/reference/join-methods/#delegated-join-methods).

1. If using ephemeral tokens, ensure you specify the appropriate token type to
   match the Teleport services. Token types can include `node`, `app`, `kube`,
   `db`, `windowsdesktop` and others depending on the service you wish to join
   to your Teleport Cluster.

1. In the following example, a new token is created with the TTL of fifteen
   minutes:

   ```code
   $ tctl tokens add --type node,app,db --ttl 15m
   ```

   In this command, we assigned the token the `node`, `app` and `db` type,
   indicating that it will allow an agent to join which is running the Teleport
   `ssh_service`, `db_service` and `app_service`.

   Copy the token so you can use it later in this guide.

1. Stop Teleport services on the agent (if applicable).

> 1. Update the `proxy_server` or `auth_servers` field in the agent configuration

Reviewer: Might be worth just mentioning `proxy_server` here, with a note saying "If you don't have an `auth_server` or `auth_servers` entry rather than a `proxy_server` entry, you should migrate your config to `version: v3` and switch to using `proxy_server` as in the example)

Folks might get confused between `auth_server` (string used in config version `v3`) and `auth_servers` (list used in config version `v1/v2`) and break connectivity.

   file to point to the address of your Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted)
   cluster. By default, on Linux servers, the configuration is located in the
   `/etc/teleport.yaml` directory.

   ```yaml
   version: v3
   teleport:
      proxy_server: example.teleport.sh:443
   ```

1. Update the `auth_token` or `join_params.token_name` field with the newly
   generated token.

   ```yaml
   teleport:
     join_params:
       method: token
       token_name: new-token-goes-here
   ```

1. On Linux servers, delete the local agent cache to force the agent to rejoin
   the new Teleport Enterprise (cloud-hosted) Cluster. By default, the data is
   located in the  `/var/lib/teleport` directory:

   ```code
   rm -rf /var/lib/teleport
   ```

> 1. On Linux servers, restartthe Teleport process on each agent or, if you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On Linux servers, restart the Teleport process on each agent or, if you are

```
